live as we continue with the subject matter of sound doctrine, and this evening we will
look at the subject matter of the Trinity. In fact, if you are taking notes, it's simply
titled the message this evening, The Trinity, and we'll look at a number of verses of
Scripture. We'll be in both the Old and New Testament this evening, and the Trinity
is a scriptural reality that is of significant importance this evening. Many of us are very
much aware of the fact that there are many that would attack this teaching. With that
knowledge that there are many today that are attacking the reality and the Bible truth
of the Trinity, it makes it that much more important that we study the subject matter
and that we are well grounded. Remember, we are to be settled and grounded in the truth
and the faith, and we understand that there are many that have come, false teachers and
so on and so forth, and that is why it's important for us to study doctrine and to be sound in
doctrine and that we would not be tossed to and fro. This evening, as we think about the
subject matter of the Trinity, we must remember that our God transcends us, and that our understanding
is limited, yet He is the infinite God, and even over the last couple of weeks as we've
studied not only the attributes of God but the names of God, we have stood in awe of
who our God is and the way in which He has made Himself known to us, and what a tremendous
blessing that is. Look here in 1 John 5 and verse number 7. The Bible says this,
For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, of course that's referring
to Jesus Christ. The beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and so we know that one of the names of Jesus
is the Word, and so we see here that the Bible says there are three that bear record in heaven,
the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. We use the word Trinity,
perhaps a word that would be used as well would be a triunity, three in one. We find
the word used both in Acts and in Romans, the Godhead. You will not find the word Trinity
or triunity in the Word of God. It's not an English word that you'll find in your Bible,
and like matter you will not find the word rapture, and there are some folks that say,
well the word rapture's not there. Yeah, but it means caught up, and we find that in the
book of 1 Thessalonians that we're to be caught up together in the clouds to meet the Lord
in the air, and so we understand the rapture based upon that teaching and obviously other
portions of Scripture, and this truth with regard to the triunity, the three in one,
is really found throughout the whole of Scripture. The Bible, no doubt we find that the Bible
reveals this truth, and we accept it by faith. The Bible says that faith cometh by hearing
and hearing by the Word of God, and what a blessing to have the Word of God in its entire
purity, and to have the truth that has been given to us. I suppose this evening that many
that are within our group this evening have heard various analogies that mankind has tried
to kind of come up with to explain the Trinity. I'll say this, and I could use some of those
analogies and try to give it to you this evening, but the reality is that there is no analogy
that sufficiently explains the truth of the Trinity. Why? Because our God transcends us,
and a theologian of yesteryear made this statement, and I thought it was an interesting statement.
He said, limiting God to our understanding is making ourselves equal to God in understanding.
That was a pretty profound truth from a theologian of yesteryear. Let me remind you still as
we think about the kind of introduction to this thought this evening of dealing with
the Trinity, if you would turn to the book of Romans in the 11th chapter, Romans 11,
and we visited this portion of Scripture a number of weeks ago as we looked at the attributes
of God and dealt with the omniscience of God, the fact that He has perfect wisdom and all
knowledge. The Bible says in Romans 11, beginning in verse 33,
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are
His judgments and His ways past finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or
who hath been His counselor? Or who hath first given to Him, and it shall be recompensed
unto Him again? For of Him and through Him and to Him are all things, to whom be glory
forever. Amen. Remember, we've mentioned on a couple of occasions the truth of Psalm 135
coupled with the truth of Psalm 145, where the psalmist declares, I know that the Lord
is great. But then he says the greatness of God is unsearchable. And I believe, as I've
said often, that there is no contradiction between those two statements. The reality
is that we know our God is great, but His greatness is unsearchable in the fact that
I can't fully comprehend just how great our God is. And this teaching of the Trinity
that we find throughout the Word of God is of utmost importance. You know, things begin
to fall apart if the Trinity were not true, and we'll look at some of those things here
in just a few moments as we get into the study this evening. And so it is an imperative truth
of the Word of God. I will say this also by way of introduction. It's interesting to know
as we looked at the names of God, and we spent the last two weeks looking at the names of
God, we looked at ten of them all in its entirety. Obviously there are more names that we could
have looked at, but two of those names that we dealt with are Elohim and Adonai. Elohim
and Adonai. It's interesting in the Hebrew that both of those words are plural, speaking
about a singular God. In the beginning, God, in Genesis chapter 1, the Hebrew word for
God is plural, but we find that it's speaking of a singular God. I would not say this evening
that the teaching and really looking at those two nouns, if you will, being the names of
God Elohim and Adonai, that them being plural would prove the Trinity in its entirety, but
certainly it helps us to understand how that from the beginning of the Word of God and
from the beginning of God's interaction with mankind, He was revealing this truth about
the Trinity. And as you look at progressive revelation, as you look at the fullness of
the Word of God and see how that God revealed all of this truth to us, how we can rejoice
in even the way that God used the names in the beginning of the Word of God. It is interesting
the word Adonai, as we mentioned, it means Lord or Master, and often in the Old Testament,
in fact, almost two-thirds of the time that the word is used in the Old Testament, it's
not referring to God, it's referring to a servant-master relationship, a ruler, a king,
something like that. But every time that word is used with dealing with a person, it's always
singular, Adonai. But when it's referring to God, Adonai, plural. And what a blessing
to see how that God would reveal this teaching of the Trinity, this truth of the Trinity
in that fashion. By way of introduction, continue, let me look at a few more verses of Scripture
and then we'll dig into some examples specifically. Look at Deuteronomy chapter 6, if you will.
Deuteronomy chapter number 6 and verse number 4, and this is a very familiar passage of
Scripture and we find that the children of Israel would have been extremely familiar
with this portion of Scripture. In fact, they would have recited this regularly. In
Deuteronomy 6 and verse number 4, the Bible says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is
one Lord. We find that in the New Testament, if you look at the truth of the baptism of
Jesus Christ in Matthew chapter number 3, in verses 16 and 17, you'll see the Trinity
there as you see the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Notice in Matthew 3 and verses
16 and 17, the Bible says, And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of
the water. And, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending
like a dove and lighting upon him. And, lo, a voice from heaven sang, This is my beloved
Son in whom I am well pleased. Again, if you're mindful of the Great Commission in Matthew
chapter 28 and verses 18 through 20, the Lord Jesus Christ is speaking and he gives
the commission to his disciples and he says this, Jesus came and spake unto them, saying,
All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations,
baptizing them in the, what does it say? Name, right? Singular, in the name of the Father
and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have
commanded you. And, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. And
Paul writes to the believers in Corinth and as he ends the second letter that he sends
to them in 2 Corinthians 13 and verse number 14, the Bible says, The grace of the Lord
Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Ghost be with you all. Amen.
We think about the Trinity. It is one triune God.
coexisting and eternally existing in three persons, God the Father, God the
Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Let's look at a few Old Testament examples, if you
will, and let's begin all the way back in Genesis 1 at creation, if you will.
Genesis chapter number 1, verses 26 and 27, and I want you to notice in each of
these Old Testament passages that we'll look at, we'll see how that the
reference is given to the truth of the Trinity, and as you go through
the Scriptures, you see how that the package is more fully unfolded,
unpackaged for us, unwrapped for us, so that we can see this teaching and this
truth of the Trinity. But here in Genesis chapter number 1, in verses 26 and 27, the
Bible says, and God said, let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let
them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image, and the image of
God created he him, male and female created he them. And so we look at some
Old Testament examples, and we start with the creation of man, and we find here in
our passage of Scripture that God said, let us make man in our image, after our
likeness. And again, we see in these Old Testament examples how that this
teaching, this truth, the reality of the Trinity, the triunity, the three-in-one,
that it is given to us right from the beginning of the Scriptures. The
Bible tells us not only here in Genesis chapter 1, but another example here in
the book of Genesis, in chapter 11. Turn over there just a few pages in
your Bible, and Genesis chapter 11 is the record of the Tower of Babel. You'll be
mindful through our study of the book of Genesis that not too long ago we looked
at this passage of Scripture, and we understood that which is taking place in
the way in which God would confound the languages. And in chapter 11, notice, if
you will, in verse number 2, it says, and it came to pass as they journeyed from
the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there. And they
said one to another, go to, let us make brick, and burned them throughly. And they
had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar. And God, excuse me, and they
said, go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach into heaven,
and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the
whole earth. And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the
children of men builded. And the Lord said, behold, the people is one, and they
have all one language, and this they begin to do. And now nothing will be
restrained from them which they have imagined to do. Go to, let us go down, and
there confound their languages, that they may not understand one another's speech.
Again, another instance of this truth being given to us in the Old Testament
is Isaiah chapter number 6. So you see in Genesis 1, during the creation of man,
and Genesis chapter 11, the confounding of the languages, and Isaiah chapter
number 6, the call of Isaiah. The call of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter number 6, and we
are again familiar with this passage of Scripture. In fact, I referenced it on
Sunday evening during the message, but we look here in Isaiah chapter number 6,
and we find that Isaiah sees the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up,
his train filled the temple. The Bible tells us after these things, this
interaction, we don't have time for reading all of it. I want to get to some
things in the New Testament examples here in just a moment, but look at verse
number 8. Isaiah speaking here, it says, also I heard the voice of the Lord saying,
whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, here am I, send me. And he
said, go and tell this people, hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see
indeed, but perceive not. And so again, we find in verse number 8 of Isaiah 6, this
reference, this teaching of the Trinity, this revelation to mankind in these
three examples from the Old Testament, the creation of man, the confounding of
the languages, and the call of Isaiah, how that the plural us is used in each one
of those examples. The Lord is speaking, and he says, let us. I don't know about you,
but if I'm doing something by myself, I don't say let us, let me, right? Because
it's a singular use of the proper use of language. Occasionally, we will hear
somebody say something of, hey, we are gonna go do this, and you really
understand that they are going to go do this, and they're saying we because
they're expecting you to help them, right? That's why they use the plural we. And so
we see that God, in each of these examples, is helping us to understand the
reality of this Bible truth of the Trinity, the triunity, the three-in-one. As
we go to the New Testament, look at some examples. What I'll do this evening is
I'll give you the truth in the way in which the each person of the
Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, or the Holy Spirit, they're each
referred to as God. Why? Because they are. Three-in-one. Look at John 17. We'll start
first with the Father. In John chapter number 17, we often refer to this portion
of Scripture in John 17 as the Lord's Prayer. We understand that there is a
model prayer that He gives when the disciples say, teach us to pray. This, in
fact, is the Lord's Prayer when He's praying before He would go to the cross
of Calvary. And the Bible says this, these words spake Jesus and lifted up His eyes
to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify Thy Son that Thy Son also
may glorify Thee. And Thou hast given Him power over all flesh that He should give
eternal life to as many as Thou hast given Him. And this is life eternal that
they might know Thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent. I
have glorified Thee on the earth. I have finished the work which Thou hast given
me, which Thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify Thou me with Thine own
self, with the glory which I had with Thee before the world was. These five
verses of Scripture are so powerful in helping us to understand a number of
things about God. Of course, the eternality of Christ is in full view in
verse number five when He speaks about the fact that He would have, once again,
the glory that He had with the Father before the world was. And there are those
that would teach that Jesus is created. No, He is not a created being. He is God.
And we'll get to that in just a moment, but we find here the eternality of
Christ is in view in verse number five. But we saw in verse number three where
that Jesus says, and this is life eternal, that they might know Thee, the one true,
or excuse me, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent. And so the
Father is the one, remember, in verse number one, as Jesus is praying, He says,
Father, the hour has come. Glorify Thy Son. And so the Father is referred to as God.
Why? Because He is. Jesus Christ is referred to as God. Why? Because He is. And
John chapter number one, a portion of Scripture that I quoted a part of it
when we looked at first John 5 and verse number 7, it said the Word and how
that we may note that that's Jesus Christ, a title or a name that is given
to Him. And John 1 and verse number 1, the Bible says, in the beginning was the
Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything
made that was made. If you look in verse number 14, the Bible says, and the Word
was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the
only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And so we see here in
John chapter number one, that in the beginning was the Word. We know that the
Word is Jesus Christ, and in verse number one it says, and the Word was God. But not
only there, I want you to look at a few other examples. Look at Acts chapter
20, if you will. And Acts chapter number 20, and I'm gonna spend a bulk of time
here. I've kind of gone quickly this evening, but I want to spend a bulk of
time on this truth, this aspect of the teaching of the Trinity that Jesus is
God, because that is the most attack thing today. There are a few cults and
some major world religions that attack the teaching that Jesus is God, and we
need to understand that this is a very prominent thing that's going on in our
world today, through the world religions and also through the cults, and we
need to be grounded and settled, and we need to know what the Word of God says,
because they will take the scriptures, they'll twist things around, and they can
get you all kinds of sideways if you're not careful, and that's why we're to be
settled and grounded in the truth. Look in Acts chapter 20. Contextually, the
Apostle Paul is speaking to the church leaders from Ephesus, and notice what he
says in verse number 28.
blood on the cross of Calvary? Jesus Christ. And it says here, it says that
you would feed the church of God which He hath purchased with His own blood.
Why is Paul able to say it that way? Because Jesus is God. And there's no
contradiction whatsoever. Yes, indeed, God in flesh, He died on the cross of
Calvary to pay for the sin of mankind. Notice in the book of Hebrews, if you
will, Hebrews chapter number one, we spent much time back in January as we
started preaching through the book of Hebrews to look at this truth with
regard to the the Lord Jesus Christ being referred to as God, because He is.
And in the particular passage, really in verses 5 down through the the end of the
chapter, He is dealing with the fact that Jesus is superior to the angels. And we
said many things about that, and we'll mention a few of those this evening as
well. But notice what it says in verse number 6, and again, when He bringeth in
the first begotten of the world, He saith, and let all the angels of God worship
Him. You understand that angels are not worshipped, but Christ is worshipped. Why?
Because He is God. We find that in verse number 8, it says, but unto the Son He
saith, this is God the Father speaking as we look at the verse here, but unto the
Son He saith, thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of
righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. And why is God the Father
referring to the Son as God, O God, forever and ever? Thy throne, O God, is
forever and ever. Why? Because He is. He's God. We find here, we think about angels
in the context of Hebrews chapter 1, we find that the angels, in fact, were there
announcing the birth of Christ, and they're singing the praises in glory to
God in the highest, and so on and so forth. And we find throughout the Word of
God that angels are never worshipped. In fact, in the book of Revelation, when
there's an angel that's giving some of those truths to John, and John's
ready to worship, he says, no, worship God. Don't worship me. Don't worship an
angel. You worship God. And so, if we're to worship God, if Jesus is not God, then
there's a problem in the fact that throughout the gospel records we find
many examples of Jesus accepting worship. Why would He accept worship? Because He's
God. Remember when, let me share a couple of examples, and then I'll say that. Look
in Matthew chapter number 2, if you will. In Matthew chapter number 2, and this is
a portion of Scripture that we're familiar with during the season that is
coming near upon us, the Christmas season. And speaking about the birth of our
Savior in Matthew 2, in verse number 11, it says, when they were coming to the
house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, fell down and worshipped him.
And they worshipped Mary, they worshipped him, and remember they asked Herod, where is
he that is born King of the Jews? In verse number 2, and they worship and they
present gifts. It says, when they opened their treasures, they presented unto him
gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh. Look over in chapter number 8 of the
book of Matthew. We'll just look at a few examples right here in the book of
Matthew. In chapter number 8, in verse number 1, the Bible says, when he was
come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And behold, there
came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me
clean. Of course, Jesus healed the man, but we find here that Jesus accepted and
received the worship of this one. In chapter 9, in verse number 18, the Bible
gives us another example. While he spake these things unto them, behold, there came
a certain ruler and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now dead, but
come and lay thy hand upon her, and she shall live. There are many other examples
that we could give you this evening in the gospel records, and I would
encourage you to read through the Gospels and to take note of the times in
which Jesus received worship. Why? Because He's God. It was absolutely
appropriate for them to worship Jesus Christ because Jesus is God. If He was
not God, He would not have received worship. You know, there was a time in
which Paul, as he's on a missionary journey, that they were gonna worship
Paul. They were gonna present offerings. What did Paul do? No, don't do that. I'm
not. I'm trying to point you to the true living God. If someone came to try to
worship you, what would you do? Would you let him worship you? I'm not worthy of
worship, but Jesus is God, and therefore He accepted and He was worshipped. In
Mark chapter number 2, again, we don't have time to look through the entirety
of the passage, but I want you to remember what's happening here in Mark
chapter number 2 and give you some feed for thought, some looking at this
passage maybe later and studying through it. Jesus is teaching and a great
group of people are gathered together, and these four want to bring their
friend that was sick of the palsy. The Bible says that he was born of four. They
couldn't get in because of how many people. They had to let him down through
the the roof, and the Bible says that Jesus says to him, look in verse number
5, when Jesus saw their faith, He said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins
be forgiven thee. Now, there are people there that were sitting by that were
observing, some that were there for the right reason, trying to hear Jesus teach
and wanted to hear the Word. There were others that were there seeking to
scribes, Pharisees, Sadducees, that were always looking to accuse the Lord Jesus
Christ of something wrong, and here the Bible says that there were some of the
scribes. Notice in verse number 6, but there were certain of the scribes
sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why doth this man thus speak
blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? They're right. Only God can forgive
sins. You know, the priest can't forgive you of any sins, right? There's a whole
host of people that have been blinded by those false teachings. Only God can
forgive sins. They're right. Notice what is said here. Immediately when Jesus
perceived in the Spirit that they had so reasoned within themselves, He said unto
them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether is it easier to say to
the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take
up thy bed and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth
to forgive sins. And then He turns to the man that was sick of the palsy. You
got to see it, you got to understand what's happening. He's talking to these
scribes that rightfully say, Who can forgive sins but God only? And He
says this to the scribes, and then He looks to the man that's sick of the
palsy, and He says to him, Arise, take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.
And he arose, and he went. Jesus said in verse number 10 that ye may know that
the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins. He's God. He's God. We could
look at a whole host of examples this evening throughout these pages of the
New Testament and find evidence that Christ is Messiah. We speak about His
incarnation as deity, and we'll look at some of those things as we transition
from the doctrine of God theology to the doctrine of Christ, and we'll begin
looking at that in a couple of weeks. And we will make more mention and more
reference to these things, but we find that Jesus Christ is God. The teaching of
the Trinity here in the New Testament, God the Father is referred to as God
because He is. The Lord Jesus Christ is referred to as God. Why? Because He is. He
receives worship as God because He is. He mentions about forgiving sins, and what
a blessing. Notice in Acts chapter number 5, the final reference, remember the
triunity, the three-in-one, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. In
Acts chapter number 5, a portion of Scripture in the early church, there
were Ananias and Sapphira. They were gonna sell a possession, remember, and
they had made this agreement amongst themselves. They're gonna hold back a
portion of what their proceeds were from the sale, but yet they were gonna come in
and act as if they were gonna give everything. And the reality is that Peter
deals with them and says, listen, you didn't have to sell it, and even after
you did, you didn't have to give all of it, but there's an important truth that
is given here. Again, sometimes we look at maybe the account and the
circumstances in which we're dealing with in the dialogue, and perhaps we
could miss some truth. And in verse number 1, it says this, but a certain man
named Ananias with Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession and kept back a part
of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part and
laid it at the apostle's feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine
heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and to keep back part of the price of the land?
So according to verse number 3, who did Ananias lie to? The Holy Ghost, the Holy
Spirit. Verse number 4, while it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was
sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine
heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. But unto God. Why? Because the
Holy Spirit is God, right? In verse number 3, Peter says, listen Ananias, Satan has
filled your heart. He says, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy
Ghost? And he goes through and he tells him, listen, you didn't have to sell the
possession. After you sold it, you didn't have to give all of the proceeds to the
church.
but you came as if that's what you did and you didn't lie to man you lied to
God the Holy Spirit is God and by the way I want you to consider this truth we
see it here in Acts chapter 5 that the Holy Spirit is the Holy Ghost referred
to as God be mindful with me in 2nd Timothy chapter number 3 of a great
truth that we have with regard to the the Word of God the inspiration of God's
Word in 2nd Timothy 3 in verse number 16 it's a verse that we often quote the
Bible says all scripture is given by inspiration of God and it's profitable
for doctrine for a proof for correction for instruction and righteousness that
the man of God may be perfect throughly furnished unto all good works now we
understand inspiration God breathed we understand that this book is God's Word
to man and what a blessing that is I am so thankful for the Word of God Peter
says this in 2nd Peter chapter number 1 in verses 19 through 21 and again
there's no contradiction because the Holy Spirit the Holy Ghost is God and
notice in verse number 19 Peter says we have also a more sure word of prophecy
where unto you do well that you take heed as into a light that shineth in a
dark place until the day dawn and the day star rise in your hearts knowing
this first that no prophecy of the scriptures of any private interpretation
for the prophecy came not an old time by the will of man but holy men of God
spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost and we understand as we would read
this portion of Scripture that the the Holy Spirit would lead these men again
everything that Paul wrote or said wasn't Scripture but when he was
speaking when he was writing Scripture of course the Holy Ghost would move upon
him the Holy Spirit of God and all Scripture is given by inspiration of God
and when we think about that truth this evening if the Holy Spirit the Holy
Ghost moved upon men and obviously referring to the Old Testament writings
here contextually and of course the entirety of the Word of God the question
would be if the Holy Spirit is not God then how would we say that this is the
Word of God the Holy Spirit's not God but he is God and so therefore there's
no contradiction for us to say that this is the Word of God all Scripture is
given by inspiration of God and oh by the way the operation of that the
outworking of how that happened was that the Holy Ghost came upon men and they
spoke and that was the Word of God why because the Holy Spirit is God and so
this evening as we think about the subject of the Trinity it's an important
subject matter it's an important scriptural reality and it is important
for us as we look at the truth of the Trinity to really understand and grasp
it to the best of our ability understanding that God has given the
truth in his Word and we accept it by faith and we we trust that what God has
given us and how he has revealed this truth to us that we can claim it by
faith understanding that that he transcends us that my understanding is
finite and he is an infinite God and we can rejoice in the fact that he is great
but yet his greatness is unsearchable and his ways are past finding out but to
understand this evening that this teaching of the Trinity listen there are
some that would try to attack the the teaching of the Trinity I've mentioned
that by way of introduction the reason why it's important that we study it
there were some that would try to say well it was this is just a teaching that
was introduced by some theologian in some particular year so on and so forth
I showed you this evening starting all the way back in Genesis how that this is
a Bible truth this is not something that some theologian or some some religious
organization came up with and just began to to teach at some point no I'm pretty
confident as I read the Word of God to see how that even in the Old Testament
that God was revealing through the use of Elohim and Adonai and then also the
use of let us make man in our image let us go down and confound their languages
who will go for us that God was revealing even the Old Testament this
truth this reality of the Trinity and then we see with the progressive
revelation how that we get the New Testament and Jesus Messiah comes and he
shows he shows that he is God how he receives worship he forgives sin the
attributes of God that that are given in the Old Testament you'll see him in the
New Testament through the person of Christ you'll see his power you'll see
the names in the book of Revelation when you begin to read the first few chapters
the book of Revelation you begin to see how that names are ascribed to Jesus
then in the Old Testament are given to God the Father there's no contradiction
why Jesus is God and so when we understand the biblical reality of the
scriptural truth and we're grounded and settled on it these cults that want to
deny that Jesus is God these religions of the world that want to deny that
Jesus is God we must stand upon the truth of the Word of God and I would
submit to you this but Paul says in 1st Corinthians 2 in verse number 14 the
natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness
unto him neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned
and I'm so thankful that God has revealed himself to us in his Word and
he's given us this truth of the Trinity and what a blessing it is to know that
God the Father God the Son and God the Holy Spirit three in one tri unity or
Trinity as we often refer to it as let's pray this evening father we love you
we're so thankful for your word we're so thankful for the truth that is contained
therein and Lord as we study this passage or these passages of Scripture
this evening with this subject matter of the Trinity I pray that our faith has
been strengthened I pray that we've been grounded even more secure in the faith
God we know that there are false teachers we are aware of cults today
that would teach that Jesus was created that would teach blasphemous things
about our Savior Jesus Christ and God we know that as we study your word that
this was not some teaching that originated with some religious
organization or some individual theologian at some date in recent
history but this this is a Bible truth we go all the way back to the pages of
Genesis and we see how that you were revealing this to your people and God I
pray that you'd help us as we perhaps come into contact with some or have some
that would attack our faith or our belief that we would be able to stand
firm upon the truth of your word plus bless our time of prayer again we thank
you for the privilege I pray that you be honored and glorified through all that
said and done for it's in Christ's name we pray amen if you do not have a prayer
bulletin we can get